CHAPTER I.

PREPARATIONS.


"Have you heard from Bob? Will he come?"

"Can't tell yet. I had a letter this morning, and he writes that it's
doubtful. He hasn't given up all hope, though, and says he may get on
the rear platform just as the train pulls out."

"That would be just like him. He never started for chapel till all the
fellows were there, or went into class-room until the recitation was
just ready to begin. He never wasted a minute of his time hanging
round."

"He never was late, though, in his life."

"That's all right. I know that as well as you do. I sometimes used to
wish he would be late, for it made me half provoked to see him.
Nothing ever seemed to put him out, and yet he'd always come in just
at the last minute, as if he hadn't hurried or he somehow knew they
wouldn't begin until he got there. It was just the same with his
studies. There I'd be burning my midnight oil and putting in my best
work, and he'd sit down for a few minutes at the table and do in half
an hour what it had taken me three straight hours to work out. I never
saw such a fellow."

"Yes, Bob was a great fellow."

"You don't have to remind me of that. Haven't we roomed together all
through senior year? I used to think before he took up his bed and
came over to room with me, that if I could only have him with me,
somehow I'd catch the way he did his work, but it wasn't contagious."

"He's got, without asking for it, what my father says is the one thing
he sent me to the academy for, and what he's going to send me to
college to get, though I'm afraid he'll be disappointed."

"What's that?"

"Oh, it's what my father calls the power of concentrating your mind."

"Well, Bob had it for a fact. It didn't seem to make much difference
to him whether there was a room full of fellows about him, or not.
When he got ready to work, he just sat down to it, and you might yell
in his ears or pull his chair out from under him, and it wouldn't make
a bit of difference. He'd sit there on thin air and dig away until his
work was all done and then look up as if he was as surprised as you
please to see any one in the room. Do you know, I just envied Bob. I
did for a fact. I'd give all my father's money to stand in his shoes."

"Perhaps your father would have something to say about that. But Bob
was a great fellow; no mistake about that. Do you think he'll have to
give up going to college with us?"

"I don't know; I hope not. His mother's a widow, you know, and since
his father died, I think they've had a hard time of it. If it was any
other fellow I'd say right off he couldn't go. But Bob's different,
you see. He didn't have any money and couldn't do lots of the things
the others did, but he was the most popular fellow in all the school,
for all that. So I somehow don't give up hope that he'll go with us in
the fall, after all. Everything seems to turn his way."

"Don't you believe it. It's the other way around, I'm telling you. He
just turns everything his way."

"Well, I don't care how you put it if he'll only join us in the camp.
I say, Jock, how did you happen to hit on this plan? It's great,
that's what it is."

"Oh, I didn't hit on it at all, it was my father. You see, he spent
the first vacation he's had in ten years last summer down at the
Thousand Islands. We all had such a good time that we wanted to go
again this summer; but he couldn't get away, and my mother wouldn't go
without him, so they finally compromised on me. At first they thought
they'd send me down to Alexandria Bay and Round Island to one of the
hotels, and for fear that I'd get lonesome they were going to select
some fine man who was well up in Latin and Greek to go along with me,
just for company, you see."

"Yes, I see," laughed his companion. "They were going to get a tutor
for you, were they?"

"Yes, that's what some people call it, I believe. But when I
astonished the family by passing my entrance exams., they didn't know
what to do, so at my own suggestion my father hired a camp on Pine
Tree Island, and the result is that you and the other fellows are to
benefit by my brilliant labors. You ought to be grateful; but this is
a cold, cold world, and I'm not building my hopes too high. The
trouble is, I _know_ you."

"Oh, we'll do the dutiful act and put in all the flourishes," said his
friend, with a laugh. "But say, Jock, is it really true about the
fishing and canoeing and all that sort of thing that they tell about
there?"

"True? well, I should say it was! You won't need but one look at the
river to make you think you've found the best spot on earth. Fishing,
fishing? why, let me tell you."

"No, no! please don't. I can't bear too much, you must remember."

"Fishing?" resumed Jock, unmindful of his friend's banter, "why, one
morning last summer I got up before breakfast--"

"Impossible!" interrupted his friend. "I can stand your fish stories;
but that--that is too much for me."

"One morning I got up early, as I was telling you," resumed Jock.

"I believe you did make some remarks upon that subject."

"Keep still! Well, I got up before light--"

"What, what?"

"And went out with my boatman. We caught thirty of the biggest bass
you ever saw--"

"Ever saw or ever expect to see," broke in his friend.

"And we were just going ashore to cook our dinner--"

"But when and where did you have breakfast? You've got ahead of your
story. Tell me about the breakfast. I haven't recovered from the shock
of thinking of you as being up before that was ready."

"And just before we landed, I was beginning to reel in my line. I had
out about a hundred and fifty feet, when all at once--"

"What, what? Oh, don't keep me in this suspense, I can't bear it,"
again interrupted his irreverent friend, striking an attitude of eager
attention as he spoke.

"I had a strike that almost yanked my rod out of my hand."

"Ah, yes, I see, your hook had caught on the bottom."

Jock flung a book at the head of his friend and then laughingly said:
"Well, you just wait till we get into camp, that's all I can say. If
you don't tell bigger stories then than I can now, it will be because
language has failed you."

"I usually fail in language; my marks are apt to be below par. But I
must be going now, Jock. You say the train leaves the Grand Central at
nine to-night?"

"Yes. You'd better get your ticket and check your trunk early. There's
likely to be a crowd at this time of the year."

"I'll be there. Got your ticket, Jock?"

"Me? Yes. I've got a pass for Bob and myself, or rather my father got
one for us."

"That's the way in this world," said his friend, with mock solemnity.
"Here you are the son of a railroad magnate and just rolling in lucre,
and you don't have to buy a ticket like common mortals. No, you have a
pass and all the conductors and porters stand off and look at you as
if you were the King of Cr[oe]sus or some other thing, and we poor
little sons of lawyers have to march up to the ticket-office and plank
down good, hard-earned straight cash for our little pieces of
pasteboards."

"You are to be pitied," replied Jock. "I heard my father say the other
day the reason the railroads couldn't make any money was because the
lawyers got in first, and the roads had to take what little they
left."

"Did he say that?"

"Yes, for a fact."

"This moment I return to my ancestral domicile and demand of my stern
parent the portion which falleth to me. He has kept his possession of
such vast wealth concealed from his family. I go to make him
disgorge."

"Don't forget the train leaves at nine," warned Jock. "I've got the
sleeping-car tickets, or at least I've got a section and a berth.
That'll be enough if Bob shouldn't come, and if he does, why, two of
us will have to double up, that's all."

Jock watched his friend as he ran down the stairway, and then turned
back into his own room and continued his preparations for the proposed
journey. Fishing tackle was rearranged, a gun was placed carefully in
its case, and many details looked after which only a light-hearted
lad, eager for a new experience, knew how to provide.

And certainly Josiah Cope apparently had everything to add to his
happiness. His home was one of wealth, and all that father or mother
could do had been done for him. He was an eager-hearted lad, as full
of good impulses as one could well be, and as he moved busily about in
his room it was not difficult to understand why he was such a
universal favorite among his mates. His face had that expression of
frankness and good-will which somehow draws to itself all who behold
it, whether they will or no; and the devotion with which his mother
watched over him was, in a measure, shared by his schoolboy friends,
for there was something about him which appealed to their desire to
protect and shield him from ruder blasts which others might endure
more readily.

Not that Jock (for so his friends had shortened the somewhat homely
name which the lad was the fifth in direct descent to bear) was in the
least effeminate, but his slight figure, his dark eyes and somewhat
delicate features, left one with the impression that he was not
over-rugged. Whatever others might think, his mother was most
decidedly of that opinion, and perhaps not without reason; for she
had seen his brothers and sisters enter the home only to remain for a
few brief years and then go out forever, and Jock, she frequently
declared, was her all. If she meant all she had left, she was correct,
and certainly the love he received in his home might easily have been
shared with many, and then no one would have complained of receiving
too small a portion.

But Jock had somehow survived the perilous treatment and apparently
was as popular among his mates as he was in his home. And unknown to
him it was the loving fears of his mother that had led to the
experiment of a summer camp among the Thousand Islands in the hope
that the breath of the great river and the outdoor life would bring a
little more color into the cheeks that were too pale for a well-grown
lad of seventeen to have.

The decision once made, the next move was to select his companions.
This was not a difficult problem, and soon the choicest three of his
friends in the academy from which Jock had just graduated, and with
whom he hoped to go up to college in the coming autumn, were invited
to join him,--an invitation quickly and eagerly accepted by all save
Robert Darnell, the "Bob" of the preceding conversation, and the
reasons which led him to hesitate have already been referred to.

Still all hoped that the sturdy Bob, the quiet self-contained lad, the
leader of his class in scholarship, and easily the best bat in school,
could come from his home in the country and join them.

Albert, or "Bert," Bliss, who had been having the conversation we have
already reported, was a short sturdy lad, always ready for a good
time, his curly hair and laughing blue eyes causing one to laugh
whenever he saw him, so irresistible was the contagion of his
overflowing spirits.

The fourth member of the proposed party, Benjamin, or "Ben," Dallett,
was in many ways the opposite of Albert, and in school parlance they
had sometimes been known as the "Siamese twins," or "The Long and the
Short of it." Certainly they were much together, and just as certainly
was Ben as much too tall as his friend was too short.

All of the boys save Bob had their abode in New York and had come from
homes of wealth, but in their presence Bob almost never thought of
his own deprivations, or only when it was impossible for him to engage
in some of the enterprises of his friends, and certain it is that the
envy to which Ben had given expression, if there was such a feeling
manifest among the four friends, was much more of the sterling worth
and quiet powers of Bob than of the possessions of the others. At all
events, they had become fast friends, and, bound together by such ties
as can only be found in school and college, would be certain to have a
good time if once they should be together in the camp on the selected
island in the St. Lawrence River.

The evening had come, and the three boys had eagerly been watching in
the great station for the arrival of their friend. As yet he had not
appeared, and when the gong sounded its warning, reluctantly they
grasped their various belongings and, holding their tickets in their
teeth, passed through the gate and boarded their train.

"It isn't time yet," said Bert. "He won't come till the train begins
to move."

"I'm afraid he isn't coming at all," replied Jock, as he arranged his
various parcels in the section, all the time keeping a careful lookout
for the appearance of the missing Bob in the doorway of the car.




CHAPTER II.

THE JOURNEY.


The train was now increasing its speed and swept swiftly past the city
blocks, and then with a groan darted into the long tunnel. The rumble
became a roar, and as the boys were convinced that the missing Bob had
been left behind, they glanced about the car at their travelling
companions.

Apparently every berth had been taken, and it was evident from the
fishing rods that could be seen that many besides themselves had
started for the great river. There were young people and old, and
little children who already were rubbing their sleepy eyes, unable to
remain awake longer, in spite of the noise of the fast-flying cars and
the roar of the train in the tunnel.

Soon the sounds changed, and all knew that they had passed through the
underground way, and the scattered lights of the streets could be seen
again. As the boys turned once more to glance behind them, Jock
emitted a shout; for there, standing quietly in the aisle, was the
missing member of the band, Bob Darnell himself.

"Where did you come from, Bob?" shouted Jock, delightedly, as he
grasped his friend's hand. "We thought we'd lost you."

"It's mighty easy to get lost in this town of yours. Who would want to
live in such a place?" replied Bob, quietly.

"But where were you? How did you get aboard? We waited and waited for
you, but you didn't come. Tell us about it," exclaimed the eager boys,
as they made room for their friend to take the vacant seat.

"You might have known I'd be here. You needn't have wasted your
precious thoughts on me."

"I know it, Bob, but I don't see how you got here," said Jock.

"You city chaps don't understand, and you never will," replied Bob.
"You always rush around as if you hadn't a minute to spare. What's the
good of it, I'd like to know?"

"Not much good, if we could only be as sure of being on time as you
are, Bob," said Bert. "Why don't you tell us how you did it?"

"There isn't anything to tell. My train got in about an hour ago, and
I went up on Madison Avenue to Jock's house. They told me he'd gone to
the station with you fellows, and they all seemed to be very much
excited about it, too. All they could say to me was: 'Hurry up. Make
haste, or you'll be left.' Queer folks, these New Yorkers."

"Well, you did almost get left, didn't you?"

"Left? Not a bit of it. It's true they had closed the door, and the
gateman didn't want to let me pass, especially when I didn't have any
ticket. But after a little argument he relented, and I went down to
the platform. There I had a tussle with the porter, for he was just
getting aboard the train, and had taken in his steps. He, too, wanted
to see my ticket, but I didn't have time to stop and talk much with
him, so I just climbed in after him. I found I was on the last car, so
I had to travel all through the train to find you. You ought not to
have made me do that, fellows; it's too much of an exertion," he added
regretfully.

The boys all laughed, and their evident unconsciousness of the
presence of the others in the car, and their light-hearted and merry
voices, soon drew the attention of their travelling companions. Old
men glanced at them with a softened expression on their countenances,
as if the sight of young life and care-free lads reminded them of days
in their own lives now far away and dim in the years that were gone.
Old ladies watched them and smiled, without understanding what it was
that made their eyes light up as they listened to the contagious
laughter of the happy-hearted boys. Little children came tottering and
staggering down the swaying aisle, and stopped before them, peering
wonderingly at the band as if they knew they must be having a good
time, and would like to join in it themselves. Jock passed pieces of
candy to the little ones, and the enjoyment of the boys became keener
as they watched the children thrust the sweetmeats into their mouths,
and then go staggering back to their mothers, and, climbing into their
laps, point gleefully to the group which had treated them so well.

Indeed, the very presence of the boys seemed to create a different
atmosphere in the car, and in whatever direction they looked, they
were sure to be met with smiling glances. Certainly, thoughts of
possible evil days to come did not disturb them; the burdens of life
were all for others, and as far as our four friends were concerned,
life itself was colored with a halo of the brightness which not only
was theirs by right, but was increased by the anticipation of days
that were soon to come in the camp on Pine Tree Island.

"I haven't bothered my head much about the details of this thing,"
said Bob, "but I'd like to know how much work we've got to do
to-morrow."

"No work at all, Bob," said Jock, laughing. "I wouldn't dare lay such
a contract as that on your delicate shoulders."

"That's kind of you," replied Bob, shrugging those same shoulders,
which certainly to the ordinary observer gave no symptoms of delicacy.
"But I was thinking about the camp, you know. Some tent or some thing
or other has to be set up, I suppose. Who's to do that, I'd like to
know?"

"That's all been done," said Jock, laughingly. "My father wrote Ethan
Barnes last week--he's to be our guide, you know, or rather one of
them, for his son is to be there too. Everything has been sent on
ahead and probably by this time Ethan's got everything all ready for
us. You see, my father used to live in that part of the world when he
was a boy, and he and Ethan were old school friends. They used to sit
together on the same bench, I believe. Father says the old red
schoolhouse is still standing, and he'd like to have me go over there
some day. He says I'd find his initials cut in the seat with the first
jack-knife he ever owned. There's one thing you'll have to do though,
Bob."

"What's that?"

"You'll have to reel in your own fish when you get a strike."

"Strike? What's a strike? Do I have to do the striking?"

"No, no. When a bass swallows your hook they call it a 'strike.'"

"Who calls it a strike, the bass?"

"No, everybody calls it that."

"Well, all I can say, I don't blame a bass for striking then. I'd
strike, too, if I was in his place."

"You? not much, you'd never strike. You'd just wait till somebody came
along and took the hook out of your mouth," was Ben's merry comment.

"How do you do the fishing?" inquired Bob, apparently unmoved.

"Why, we go out in boats, you know. Skiffs. Those St. Lawrence skiffs
are beauties too, let me tell you," said Jock.

"But how do the skiffs go?" persisted Bob. "By steam?"

"No, no. We'll have boatmen. Ethan will pull one and his son the
other, and two of us will go in each. It's great sport."

"It must be. You don't know what a load you've lifted from me. I
almost gave up when I thought I'd have to work. It doesn't agree with
me. Never did. My mother has noticed it ever since I was born. But
she's the only one who understands me. Hello, here's the mogul!"

The boys looked up as he spoke, and saw the conductor and the porter
near them. As their tickets were taken and the berths assigned, Bob
said:--

"Jock, you say you'll take the berth in the next section. There won't
be any room left for you, I'm thinking. That's all spoken for now."

For the first time Jock noticed who was seated in the adjoining
section. A woman was there, but never in all his life had he seen one
so stout. It almost seemed as if she completely filled the seat, and
it was evident from her manner that she was far from feeling at her
ease. She glanced nervously about the car, and not for a moment
relaxed her grasp on the seat. Her eyes, too, betrayed her alarm, and
it was plain that the experience she was then undergoing was a new and
not altogether pleasurable one.

As the boys glanced at her, her fear seemed to increase. She rose from
the seat, but a sudden lurch of the car sent her back again with an
exclamation of anger which could be heard by all.

"Here, you!" she called. "I say, mister, come here!"

It was the colored porter to whom she was speaking, and as he turned
back respectfully to listen to what she had to say, his face beamed
with good nature and amusement.

"What is it, madam?" he said kindly.

"I thought they told me this was a sleepin' car."

"So it is."

"It is, is it? Well, where do folks sleep, I'd like to know?"

"Why, in the beds."

"I don't see no beds," she replied angrily, as she looked about the
car.

"Why, madam, these seats are the beds."

"The seats are the beds? Humph, pretty beds they are! Do you expect
_me_ to lie down on 'em?"

"They are changed and made up. I'm the porter and I'll make up your
berth whenever you want it."

"You're the porter, be ye? Well, I thought you was one o' the
Vanderbilts, with all yer gold buttons and fine clothes. Well, ye jest
make up mine now."

"I'll be back in a minute and fix you up all right, madam. You're
going to Philadelphia, aren't you?"

"Yes, I am. I'm goin' to Philadelphy, an' the sooner I get there the
better."

As the porter turned away to complete his collection of tickets, Jock
turned to his companions and said: "That woman has made a mistake. She
says she's going to Philadelphia, and she's got on the wrong train, as
sure's you live. I'm going to tell her."

Leaving his seat, Jock approached the troubled passenger and said,
"Did I understand you to say you were going to Philadelphia?"

"Hey? Yes, I'm goin' to Philadelphy, but I don't see how that concerns
you, Bub," and as she spoke she hurriedly felt in her pocket as if she
expected the stranger who had dared to address her was one of the
light-fingered gentry who she had been informed infested the city and
were wont to take advantage of innocent and unsuspecting strangers.

Jock's face flushed as he heard himself addressed as "Bub," and his
confusion was increased as he saw an expression of amusement creep
over the faces of his companions; but he was too polite to heed now,
and was determined to assist the old lady in what was her evident
confusion and mistake.

"All I wanted to say, madam," he continued, again speaking to the
troubled woman, "was that I fear you have made a mistake. If you
wanted to go to Philadelphia you ought to have gone on the
Pennsylvania road, not on the New York Central; this train doesn't go
to Philadelphia."

"Hey? What's that ye say?" exclaimed the startled woman. "Got the
wrong keers, have I? Here you, Mr. Porter," she shouted, standing with
difficulty and shaking a huge cotton umbrella at that officer. "Come
here, come here!" she called in increasing excitement.

As the porter hastened toward her, the eyes of all in the car were
turned upon her. Some of the passengers were evidently amused, and
some were sympathizing with her in her trouble.

"What is it, madam, what is it?" inquired the colored man, politely.

"This boy says this isn't the train for Philadelphy," she exclaimed
wrathfully. "What d'ye put me on this keer for, I'd like to know?" She
was grasping her pocket with one hand and waving her cotton umbrella
frantically in her excitement with the other. "Ye jest meant to rob
me!" she continued. "I know ye. Ye knew I had six dollars and
seventeen cents in my pocket. Ye shan't get it, that's what ye
shan't!"

"But, madam, this train does go to Philadelphia."

"Hey? it does, does it? What d'ye mean, then?" she demanded, turning
again upon Jock. "Then it was you that wanted to rob me! I'll turn
you over to the police, I vum I will!"

It was some time before it was explained that there was a little
junction not far from the St. Lawrence which rejoiced in the same name
as its larger sister in the adjacent state; but at last all was made
plain, and covered with confusion Jock took his seat once more, hardly
daring to look around upon his fellow-travellers, who evidently had
been hugely enjoying the scene.

But the troubles were not yet ended. As the porter volunteered to make
ready the old lady's berth at once, the boys vacated their seats for
their neighbor, who watched with evident consternation the
preparations for the night.

The berths were speedily prepared, and then the porter said, "I'll
take your tickets, madam, and you can retire when you please." As he
took the slip the porter glanced once more at her in amusement as he
said: "Yours is the upper berth, madam. Wait a moment and I'll get the
steps for you."

"What!" exclaimed the excited woman. "Up there in that garret? Me?
well, I guess not. Jerushy Jenkins don't climb up into any sech hole
as that! Not much; I'll ride on yer old cow-catcher afore I'll do
that."

"You may have the lower berth, madam," said Jock, quickly. "I'll be
glad to give it up to you."

"Ye will, will ye?" said Jerusha, suspiciously. "Well, I don't know
whether ye will or not. Do ye think it's safe, perfectly safe?" she
inquired of the porter.

"Yes, madam."

At last the trembling traveller was mollified, and soon afterward all
in the car were asleep. With the coming of the dawn our boys hastily
dressed and soon were gazing out of the windows at the silver-like
strips which here and there could be seen in the distance, and in a
moment knew that they were drawing near to the waters of the majestic
river, which already were reflecting the light of the coming day.




CHAPTER III.

THE SAIL DOWN THE RIVER.


The first impression of the boys was that they were passing through a
country hoary with age. The scattered homes of the farmers, which
occasionally could be seen, were evidently all of recent date, though
many of them were weather-beaten and had never known the touch of a
paint-brush. But the country itself in the gray of the dawn seemed to
be wrinkled and old. It was a level land and without any marked
features, save that of its venerable appearance; but all this was
instantly forgotten when suddenly the full sweep of the mighty St.
Lawrence burst into view.

Far as the eye could see the great mass of water stretched away, and
of what a beautiful color it was! Its strong, swift current could be
discerned even from the cars, and in the distance were the islands.
Beautiful cottages and well-kept lawns were before them, and from the
flag-poles fluttered the stars and stripes, winding in and out as the
morning breeze shook out the folds of the bunting. Far to the east
could be seen the shores of the larger islands, many of them covered
with trees, and already changing color in the light of the rapidly
approaching dawn. All together, the sight was one of imposing beauty
and grandeur; but all other things were speedily forgotten, for the
great river, as it went surging in its way, seemed to fascinate the
eyes of the eager boys.

Too much impressed by the sight to give voice to their sentiments, for
a few minutes the lads gazed at the changing scene before them; but
they were speedily recalled to their immediate surroundings by the
movements of the people in the car, who were all astir by this time.

"Here we are!" called Jock, gleefully, as the rumbling train came to a
standstill, and the passengers all prepared to leave the car.

In a moment the boys joined the procession, and as they stepped upon
the dock they saw that steamers, large and small, were there, and
innumerable smaller boats of all kinds and descriptions. What
impressed our boys more than the steamers and yachts, however, was
the sight of the beautiful St. Lawrence skiffs, numbers of which were
near the dock. Graceful and light as a birch-bark canoe, and with
cushioned seats and even equipped with chairs, it seemed to them that
never before had they beheld such beautiful little crafts. What speed
could be made in them, and once in the current of the great river, how
they would go!

The dock was filled, in spite of the early hour, with a multitude of
people, some of whom were selecting their baggage and giving orders
for its transfer to the waiting steamers. Others were calling to the
porters, and still others were themselves rushing back and forth
between the train and the boats, looking after their own belongings
and seeing that they were properly placed. It was a stirring sight,
and the fact that almost every man, to say nothing of the boys, was
equipped with the case which plainly enclosed a fishing rod, showed
that others besides themselves had hopes of sport on the great river.

Jock, who was the leader of the party, was looking eagerly about in
the crowd for some one who should correspond to the description his
father had given him of Ethan, the man who was to be their guide and
cook; but for a time he was unable to find any one whom he dared to
address as the one he was seeking.

Soon, however, a man clad in the country garb, with a flannel shirt
open at the neck, and a huge straw hat on his head, came near and
peered inquiringly at the boys. Satisfied with his inspection, he
approached and said in a deliberate manner,--

"Mebbe you're Jock Cope's boy?"

"Yes, yes," responded Jock, quickly. "He's my father, and you are
Ethan, if I'm not mistaken."

"That's what folks call me. These the boys goin' into camp with ye?"
he inquired with a drawl, turning to the other boys as he spoke.

"Yes, these are my friends," and Jock proceeded to introduce each to
Ethan.

"Glad to see ye," responded Ethan, apparently not very much impressed
by the sight of the band. "Got yer trunks checked?"

"Yes, they were checked through to Alexandria Bay. We don't have to do
anything here, do we?"

"Naw, unless ye want to go down to the Bay on the steamer. I've got my
boat here, an' if ye want to ye can sail down with me. Ye'll have
speak up, sonny, though, for if ye want to take the steamer ye'll have
to say so mighty quick."

"We haven't had breakfast," said Jock, "and if the other fellows feel
as I do, we'll want something to eat."

"Ye can get breakfast aboard the boat if ye want to an' can afford to
pay for it, or ye can go up to one o' the hotels an' get it, an' I'll
wait here for ye. 'Tisn't for me to say."

"Oh, let's wait and get our breakfast at one of the hotels, and sail
down the river in Ethan's boat," said Bert, eagerly; and as it was
apparent that all the boys shared in his desire, it was quickly
decided to leave their rods and the personal effects they had brought
with them in his care.

Ethan received the rods with a grunt, which was not expressive of high
admiration for their outfit, and the boys at once started up the
street to secure their breakfast. They were too much excited to give
much attention to the straggling little village of Clayton, for their
appetites were imperative and must be satisfied, and soon they
entered one of the hotels and secured places in the dining room.

"I tell you what," exclaimed Bert, "this is great! I never saw such a
sight as this river. We'll have a great time here. Even Bob is
excited."

"Hungry, you mean," replied that individual. "You fellows have been
all stirred up by the scenery, but I'm thinking of the inner man."

"I'm not," said Ben. "Do you know, Jock, I'm afraid of that Ethan of
yours."

"Afraid of him? What do you mean?"

"Why, he acts as if he was a king or some other potentate. You don't
really suppose he actually owns one of these islands, do you?"

"I don't know," replied Jock. "I'll ask him, if you want me to."

"Well, the way that same Ethan looks at us, and sniffs at our rods,
and treats us as if we were boys, just scares me; it does, for a fact.
I don't know the difference between a reel and a rod, and somehow I
know I shan't even dare to put a worm on my hook if he's looking at
me."

"Put a worm on your hook!" exclaimed Jock, laughingly. "You are
green. You don't use worms here."

"Don't use worms? What do you have for bait, then, I'd like to know?"

"Minnows, little fish."

"I should think it would hurt 'em if you put 'em on the hook," drawled
Bob; "I'm too tender-hearted for that."

"You won't have to hurt your tender feelings, Bob," laughed Jock.
"Ethan does all that for you. That's the advantage of having a
boatman, you see."

"Ah, yes, I see," replied Bob, with a sigh of relief.

But the breakfast was now brought in, and in a moment all other things
were forgotten as the boys fell to with a will, and ate as only hungry
boys in the early morning air of the St. Lawrence can eat.

When this task was at last completed, they started eagerly toward the
dock, and as they approached they discovered Ethan watching for them.
He had already hoisted his sail and all things were ready for the
departure.

As the boys leaped on board, they noticed the beautiful little craft
of which Ethan was the proud owner; but as he was evidently eager to
set sail at once, no remarks were made until after the boat was free
from the dock. Then the strong breeze and the swift current combined
to send them swiftly on their way down the river, and in the
exhilaration of the scene the boys for a moment gave free play to
their feelings.

"You don't often have a day like this, do you, Ethan?" said Jock.

"Hey? oh, we have 'em 'most as often as they come."

"I know that, but they don't often come, do they?"

Ethan looked at his questioner for a moment before he said, "You don't
know much, I see. Lived in the city all yer life, haven't ye?"

"Yes," replied Jock, feeling for the moment as if he were guilty of
something, though of what he could not just determine; but the
boatman's contempt was so evident that the lad resolved to ask no more
questions.

"Then you're Jock Cope's boy, be ye?" said Ethan, after a pause.

"Yes. I've often heard him speak of you, and tell how you two used to
sit together in the same seat over in the little red schoolhouse.
Father says it's still standing, and he wants me to go over and see it
some day while we're here."

"Wants ye to see it? What fur?"

"Oh, just to see it, that's all. He wants me to see the place where he
went to school when he was a boy."

"Humph! it isn't much to see. Jest a little shanty, that's all. Say,
they tell me your pa is worth a lot o' money. Is that so?"

"I don't know," said Jock. "He's got some, I suppose. Enough to pay
for our expenses here this summer, I think."

"But heow much has he got?" persisted Ethan.

"I don't know just how much. He never told me."

"Got five thousand dollars?"

"Perhaps so."

"I don't b'lieve it," grunted Ethan, contemptuously. "I know Jock
Cope, an' I know he ain't worth no sech money's that. He's done a pile
o' harm to this country, though, I'll say that for him," he added
glumly.

"Done harm? My father done harm? I don't believe it!" exclaimed Jock,
warmly.

"Well, he has, whether ye believe it or not."

"What's he done?"

"Oh, he wasn't satisfied to stay here an' do what his father did afore
him. No, he had to go off down to New York, an' they say he's worth
five thousand dollars now. I don't believe it, but all the boys reound
here do, an' so they're goin' off to teown to make their fortunes too.
Now my boy Tom, he's goin' to help reound your camp, ye know, he's got
the fever too. Somebody's told him if he'll come down there they'll
get him a job on the street cars an' pay him a dollar an' a half every
day." And Ethan's eyes became large as his voice dropped lower in his
efforts to be more impressive. "He's nothin' but a young fool, that's
what he is, and he's all took up with the notion. I want you boys to
tell him 'tisn't so, that is, if you know anything abeout it, which I
don't much believe for my part. It doesn't stand to reason that
there'd be anybody so tarnel foolish as jest to give him a dollar and
a half every day for standin' up on a street car. No, sir. I don't
believe no such thing."

The boys looked at one another, and not even the sight of the
beautiful river could keep back the look of amusement which crept over
their faces.

"Ethan, have you ever been in New York?" inquired Bob.

"Who, me? Well, I rather guess not. They don't get me to go to no sech
place as that. Pickpockets an' thieves an' gamblers. No, sir. I've
never been outside o' Jefferson an' St. Lawrence counties in all my
born days. This 'ere river is good enough for me, an' I'm goin' to
stay where I'm well off. Since these city people have got to comin' up
here summers, I'm makin' money."

From Ethan's manner it was evident that he wished the boys to question
him, and Bob was the first to improve the opportunity.

"Ethan, are you a rich man?" he inquired solemnly.

"Rich? well, I don' know as ye'd call it that exactly. I'm doin'
pretty well, though. D'ye know heow much money I took in last summer
rowin'?" he added, as if he were about to disclose some great secret.

"No; I can't imagine. How much was it?" said Bob.

"One hundred an' ten dollars an' sixty-nine cents!"

"You don't mean it! It can't be possible!"

"Well, it is trew, whether it's possible or not. I saved thirty-one
dollars an' sixteen cents an' have got it in the bank up to Wat'town
now."

"What did you do with the rest of it?"

"Oh, I had to live, didn't I? Well, I used that in livin'. My
neighbors thought I was livin' pretty high, but I didn't put on no
airs. I ain't proud."

"Whose island is that?" inquired Ben, pointing to a small island on
which there was a beautiful cottage. He felt that diversion was
necessary to break the spell Ethan's astounding statements had
produced, and accordingly asked the first question that occurred to
him.

"That? oh, that b'longs to another fool deown New York way. They tell
me he's just bought it an' give a thousand dollars for it. 'Tain't
worth it. 'Tisn't worth fifty cents. Ye jest can't raise nuthin' on
it. Why, I could 'a' had that island for a gift if I'd been willin' to
pay the tax on it twenty-five year ago, an' that wasn't more'n fifty
cents. There's yer camp ahead o' ye, boys."

Instantly the statements of the incredulous Ethan were forgotten, and
all peered eagerly at the place he had indicated. Even the
exhilaration of the sail which had occupied two hours and a half was
also forgotten now.

As they had swept on in their course the boys had been more and more
elated. On past beautiful islands, and summer camps, and parks which
seemed like large villages, they had come. Sometimes they had passed
close to the shore in places where the channel was almost like a
mill-race in its swiftness, and then again they were out in the river
where only an eddy here and there indicated the tremendous power of
the great water, on whose surface they were sailing. Wooded islands
had been seen, and then islands which appeared to be only great rocks
and boulders loomed up before them. Camping parties like their own had
been passed, and salutes had been fired to acknowledge their approach.
Men and women, boys and girls, had all seemed to catch something of
the life of the great river, and on every side there appeared to be
the joy which came from the freedom from care and the life-giving
breezes of the majestic St. Lawrence.

Only Jock, of the party, had ever been there before, and in the
novelty and delight of the experience, his companions had, perhaps,
failed to be duly impressed by the sceptical sentiments of their
boatman. At all events, when Ethan declared that the camp was in
sight, even his own presence became vague and unreal as the boys
peered eagerly before them at the place where they were to stay for
the coming six weeks, and where doubtless many and thrilling
experiences were to be theirs.




CHAPTER IV.

IN CAMP.


As the swift little boat swept forward the tents were soon visible,
standing as they did near the shore and yet close to the woods which
stretched away in the distance. There were two of these tents, and the
white canvas outlined against the green foliage presented a
wonderfully attractive appearance, at least to the eager boys, who
were all unmindful now of their boatman's financial problems and
intent only upon the vision of their abode for the coming few weeks.

Ethan explained to his companions that one of the tents was designed
to be their sleeping quarters and the other was to provide a kitchen
which could be used on stormy days. On other days the cooking was to
be done in the open air, and the fireplace and the pile of logs which
was to furnish fuel soon could be seen clearly as the party came
nearer to the island.

There was a rude little dock near the camping place, and to this Ethan
guided his boat and soon landed his passengers. As the boys leaped
out, Bert called to his companions: "This is great, fellows! Let's
give the school cheer!"

Instantly their united voices rang out, and Ethan looked up in
astonishment. "What d'ye do that for?" he inquired blankly.

"That's our school yell, Ethan," replied Jock. "Give it again, boys!"

As the sharp, clear cry rang out again they saw a young fellow of
about their own age approaching from the tents, and his evident
surprise was as marked as that of the boatman. Only a brief glance,
however, was required to convince the boys that it was Ethan's son
before them. There was the same general outline of features as in the
older man, and the same peculiar hitch as he walked.

"That's yer school yell, is it?" said Ethan. "Do they make ye do it
often?"

"Oh, whenever we feel like it," laughed Jock.

"Well, your pa an' I used to have a school yell when we went to the
little red schoolhouse, an' I want to tell ye that not one of ye can
come up to him either. Many's the time I've seen him toe a crack, an'
when the teacher brought his hickory ferule down ker-whack, yer pa
could make a louder noise than any o' you boys. He was a powerful one
to yell, Jock Cope was!"

Even Ethan's recollections were not of sufficient interest now to
prevent the boys from running up the bank to their tents, and soon
they were eagerly examining all the details of their camp. There were
four cots in one of the tents and in the other were places where their
trunks and guns and rods and their various belongings might be stored.
Ethan's son, who had been introduced as Tom, remained with his father
and assisted in bringing from the boat the articles which were to be
stored in the tents, and soon had everything arranged and in order.

The camp was on the wooded shore of one of the larger islands. Before
them was a view of the broad river, dotted here and there with
islands, on some of which were cottages and on others camping parties
not unlike their own. It was noon time now, and the sun was almost
directly above their heads. The air was almost motionless, but the
restless river was hastening on as if wind or wave, or heat or cold,
were all alike to it. The sublimity of the scene, the novelty of the
camp, the rushing waters, and tall silent trees all combined to
produce a feeling of intense delight in the hearts of the boys, and
they stood together on the shore looking out over the beautiful sight
and filled with expectations such as only light-hearted lads at such a
time can know.

"I say, boys, mebbe ye'd like something to eat."

In a moment the beautiful vision had lost its power, and turning
eagerly to the camp, Jock said: "You are right, Ethan. How did you
know we were hungry?"

"Didn't have to know. Folks have to eat, don' they? It's dinner time,
that's what it is. Most o' folks like to look at the river when they
first come, but they find scenery isn't specially fillin' as a diet.
They mostly wants somethin' to eat afore long."

"We're like the others, then," said Ben. "Did you say you had dinner
now in the middle of the day?"

"Yes, that's what I said. When did ye expect to have it?"

"Oh, I didn't know. We usually have it at night when we're at home."

"At night? Dinner at night?" exclaimed Ethan. "Ye must be funny folks.
Noon's the hour for dinner. Everybody knows that."

"Go ahead, Ethan. Have it now. We may want it every hour in the day,
if the feeling I have is anything that lasts very long."

Thus bidden, Ethan and Tom at once prepared dinner. While the younger
man made a fire, Ethan prepared the potatoes, whittling the skins as
if he had been carving an oar. He also split three black bass which
Tom had caught in the morning, and made them ready for broiling. In
addition to these he had fresh vegetables, a coffee pot, a can of
milk, and various other necessities, and to the surprise of the boys
it at once became evident that both Ethan and his son were adepts in
the art of preparing a dinner in a St. Lawrence camp.

Soon a savory odor rose from the fireplace, and the curiosity of the
boys gave place to a feeling of eagerness for the time to come when
they would be summoned to the repast. The few dishes were at last
brought forth, the dinner was declared to be ready, and the boys fell
to with a will.

What appetites they had! How good everything tasted! For a time even
conversation was neglected, but at last, when the cravings of the
inner man began to be appeased, then the joy and inspiration of the
hour once more returned.

"I s'pose ye've got a pretty fair house down to New York?" queried
Ethan of Jock.

"Oh, yes. It's one you might call comfortable, I suppose," said Jock,
with a laugh.

"Got good beds in it?"

"Yes."

"Your ma keeps a girl, I s'pose?"

"Keeps a girl? I don't know that I understand what you mean," said
Jock.

"I mean what I say. She's got a hired girl, hasn't she?"

"Do you mean the maids? The servants?"

"No, I don' mean no _servants_. I mean hired girls."

"Well, yes, I suppose she has."

"They have four servants--hired girls, I mean," drawled Bob.

"Four, four? What's yer ma do herself?"

"Oh, she's busy all the time, too busy, my father thinks," laughed
Jock.

"Four hired girls! I swan, if that don' beat all creation! What did ye
want to come down here for then, I'd like to know? Eatin' outdoors and
sleepin' on a cot when ye don' have to; that beats me! Ye city folks
must be a queer lot."

"That's just what we're here for, Ethan. We came on purpose to get a
taste of outdoor life."

"Well, ye're likely to have a good deal more'n a taste, I'm thinkin'.
Now, then," he said to Tom when the dinner had been eaten, "I'll leave
ye here to look after the boys while I go over to the Bay an' get the
trunks an' things that were checked through. I'll be back by the
middle o' the afternoon. Ye can get along without me, can't ye?"

"Yes, yes," said Jock. "We want to get out our rods and fix things up
a little. We can try the fishing to-morrow, can't we, Ethan?"

"Yes, ye can _try_ it," replied Ethan, dryly.

"You don't think we'll do much? Is that it, or isn't the fishing good
this summer?"

"Oh, the fishin' is all right. Lots o' fish here. No trouble about
that."

But Ethan at once went down to the dock and set sail for Alexandria
Bay, and the boys began to look to their rods and guns. Tom, who was
supposed to be clearing away the dishes, frequently paused in his
occupation to examine the belongings of the campers; but, although he
was feeling more at ease now with them, not one word of surprise or
commendation did he bestow. Indeed, his companions began to fear that
their tackle must all be wrong or out of date, for the only response
Tom would make to any of their anxious inquiries, was that 'he
supposed 'twas all good enough; he could tell better to-morrow.'

When everything had been done which could be done before the trunks
came, the four boys together left the camp and walked up the shore.
The novelty was still strong, and they were eager to examine their
immediate surroundings. And there was much to interest them. Swift
steam yachts frequently passed up the river, and the groups of happy
people on the decks could be plainly seen from the shore.
Occasionally a puff of smoke could be seen, and the boom of a small
cannon on some of the neighboring islands could be heard, and then the
shrill scream of the whistle of a passing yacht or steamer would
respond in acknowledgment of the salute. Skiffs were also seen, and
the rod held in the hands of the person seated in the stern would
indicate the occupation upon which he was bent.

Above them was the clear blue sky, behind them the whispering trees of
the forest, and before them the great, onward-rushing river, its blue
waters knowing no rest, and yet in spite of their evident haste
imparting a feeling of restfulness to all the beholders, so vast was
the power, so slight the effort required to maintain the steady,
constant course.

To Jock the great river almost seemed to be alive. At times it was
restless and almost angry, and then again it seemed to be hastening
past him as if it were unmindful of its surroundings, or scornful of
the puny people who sailed over its surface or stood wondering upon
its banks. But the feeling of exhilaration, the delight in the
presence of one of nature's most wonderful works, was apparent in all
the boys.

As they turned at last to retrace their way to the camp, Bob, who had
been silent most of the time, said: "This is a great place, Jock.
'Twas good of you to have us all here."

"Yes, it was pure philanthropy," said Jock. "You see, I had been down
here before and wanted all the more to come again; but my father
didn't want me to come alone; so I just had to make up a party, or
stay at home. I'm generous, am I not?"

"Yes; what was that?" Bob suddenly said, stopping short and peering
excitedly out into the river at a place where a whirl or eddy in the
stream appeared.

"That? oh, that was probably some fish."

"Jock Cope, do you mean to tell me they have fish like that in this
river?"

"Why, yes; what did you think was here?"

"Oh, I didn't know. But I'm wondering what I would do if a fish as
large as that one was should get hold of one end of a line and I
should be at the other."

"You'd wake up and go to work, for once in your life."

"I think I should, for a fact. I almost wish we could try it
to-night."

"We'll try it, all right, in the morning. Ethan will have to get our
minnows for us. Hark! what's that?"

The boys were now near the camp, and suddenly stopped as the sound of
some one calling was heard. And yet the voice was more like that of
one in distress, and fearful that something was wrong they began to
run.

As they came to a place from which they could see into the interior of
their camping place, they stopped and gazed curiously at the sight
before them. Tom, evidently thinking that he was unobserved, had taken
a position in front of one of the tents and was looking up into the
sky. His arms were occasionally flung out, moving with the grace with
which a pump handle performs its duties. He was standing with his feet
far apart, and his entire bearing betokened the evident excitement
under which he was laboring.

The startled boys were about to rush forward to his assistance, when
they were still further astonished by the words which Tom thundered
forth.

"Tew be--or not tew be," shouted the young fisherman.

The listening lads gazed blankly at one another, but before they could
speak Tom's voice was heard again.

"_Tew_ be--," then came a long pause before he shouted, "or not _tew_
be." His arms were again flung out wildly and his face was still
turned toward the sky. Apparently the question received no answer, and
varying the emphasis and inflection, the sadly troubled Tom again
broke forth,--

"Tew _be-e-e_, or not tew _be-e-e-e_."

Again our boys gazed blankly, first at the excited young fellow before
them, and then into one another's faces.

"He's sick! He's crazy!" said Ben, excitedly.

"He's going to commit suicide!" responded Jock, with equal excitement.

Moved as by a common impulse all four of the boys instantly darted
into the camp; but the startled Tom, bestowing upon them one glance of
terror and confusion, turned and ran swiftly into the woods.




CHAPTER V.

BEN TRIES THE CANOE.


Before any of the boys could start in pursuit of the fleeing Tom, one
of them suddenly called out, "Isn't that Ethan coming?"

They all turned at the words and perceived the fisherman already near
the dock, and with one accord they ran swiftly to meet him. His boat
was apparently filled with their trunks and belongings, and the two
canoes which Jock had ordered to be sent were also on board.

As Ethan ran his craft alongside the dock, Jock, too excited to note
carefully whether all his possessions had been obtained or not, called
out, "Oh, Ethan, something's the matter with Tom!"

"Hey? somethin' the matter with him? How long since?"

To the surprise of the boys Ethan did not seem to share in their
alarm. He was giving all his thought to the landing he was making,
and as soon as his boat was made fast he climbed up on the dock and
stood calmly regarding the excited lads before him.

"What's he been doin' now?" he said.

"Oh, I don't know," exclaimed Jock. "We had all gone up the shore and
when we came back to camp we heard Tom calling. We could see him, too,
and he was waving his arms and calling out as if he was in pain, and
when we ran in, he just looked at us a minute and then started off
into the woods as fast as he could go. He must be sick, Ethan. Come
on, we'll help you look for him."

"Was he a-sayin' anything?" inquired the fisherman, still for some
unaccountable reason not much aroused by the startling announcement.

"Saying anything?" exclaimed Bert. "I should say he was. He was
calling and groaning. Why, we could hear him way up the shore. He must
be in trouble. Come, Ethan; come on! We'll all help you."

"Was he a-sayin' anything? I mean any words like?"

"Yes, I believe he was," said Bob. "We could make out a few words."

"What was they?"

"Oh, he said something about 'to be' or something like that. We didn't
stop to listen much. The poor fellow was in such distress. What are
you waiting for, Ethan? Why don't you come on?"

"That's jest what I thought. Tom was sayin' his Hamlick."

"Saying what?"

"His Hamlick. Don' ye know what that is? Hamlick's a dialogue or a
play. I don' know who writ it, but Tom does. The young folks over to
the Corners is goin' to give a exhibition, and Hamlick's the one they
decided on. Tom is to be Hamlick, and he was jest a-practisin' his
piece."

For a moment the boys gazed blankly at one another, and then all but
Bob rushed from the dock as if they too had been stricken by the same
evil disease which they feared had seized upon Tom.

Bob, however, remained with Ethan, and with his face as expressionless
as he could make it at times, inquired soberly,--

"When is this play going to be given, Ethan?"

"Oh, I don' know. Some time this summer, I suppose. They 'most always
give somethin' while the summer boarders is here, and this year the
walks needed fixin' up in the Corners some, so they--I mean the young
folks, o' course--decided to give Hamlick; and Tom he's to be the
Hamlick in chief. Ever hear that dialogue down to your place?"

"Yes, I believe I have. I've heard of it, anyway."

"I thought likely. Pretty good thing, isn't it?"

"I believe it is thought to be a very good one. We shall want to know
when it is to be given so that we can all come over and see it."

"I'll let ye know when it comes off."

Ethan suddenly placed a finger in his mouth and emitted a shrill
whistle. "I guess that'll call up Tom," he explained.

A repetition of the signal brought the reluctant Tom from the woods,
and as he approached the dock he gazed in a shame-faced way at Bob, as
if he expected him to say something about what had happened; but Bob's
face was still expressionless, to the evident comfort of the young
fisherman.

"Step lively here, Tom," called his father. "We must get these trunks
and things up to the camp afore night. You 'most scared these boys to
death with your Hamlick," he added.

"Your father has been telling us about the play you are to give at the
Corners, Tom," said Bob, quietly. "We shall want to come over and see
it. You mustn't fail to let us know when it is to be given."

Somewhat reassured by the kind manner of Bob, Tom was more at his ease
and at once began to assist his father in transferring the cargo of
the little boat to the camp.

The other boys now returned, but a warning look from Bob caused them
all to be silent about the recent occurrence. In a brief time the
trunks had been placed in the tent where they belonged, the canoes
were left on the shore, and then Ethan and Tom began to prepare
supper.

The appetites of the boys apparently were as keen as they had been at
noon time, and the rapidity with which the table was cleared was a
delight to Ethan's heart. Neither Hamlick nor the Ghost could
interfere now, for the demands of their hunger were supreme.

Soon after supper Ethan and Tom departed for the night, promising to
return at daybreak in time to prepare breakfast and be ready for the
fishing which was to be done on the following day. The boys stood on
the shore and watched the boat as it sped away over the river, and
then when it had disappeared from sight they all turned and demanded
of Bob the explanation of Hamlick.

But Bob was in no mood to banter, and so he soberly related what Ethan
had told him about the efforts of the "young folks" at the Corners to
do something which should aid in improving the little hamlet in which
they dwelt. Somehow it all appeared in a different light now, and the
merriment was soon gone.

"I'm going to have a paddle in one of the canoes before I go to bed,"
exclaimed Jock, as he leaped up from the bank on which they were all
seated.

As the other boys had had no experience in that sport, they all stood
on the dock, eagerly watching their comrade as he took his seat in the
light little canoe and wielding his paddle swept swiftly over the
water.

"Did you ever see anything like that!" exclaimed Ben, delightedly.
"'It's like a feather on the water or a leaf upon the stream,' or
something like that we had in our English last spring at school. Isn't
it fine!"

"Yes, and how easily Jock does it too," added Bob, with a wink at Bert
as he spoke. "Travelling like that is just fun."

"I wonder if I can't do it," said Ben, looking longingly at the other
canoe, which was still on the bank.

"You can try it, can't you?" drawled Bob. "Nothing like trying, you
know. It's a knack, that's all, and you have to be careful. Shall I
help you bring the other canoe down to the dock?"

Ben glanced once more at Jock, who could be seen far out on the river,
and the sight served to increase his eagerness. "Yes; come on,
fellows. If you'll help me, I'll try it, anyhow."

In a moment the canoe was lifted and carried down to the dock. Then
Bob held one end of it securely and Bert the other, while Ben
cautiously took his seat in the middle. A shout from Jock caused them
all to look up, and they could see that he was paddling toward them
with all the speed he could summon.

"Perhaps he's calling for you to come out and meet him," said Bob,
soberly.

"I'll do it," said Ben, eagerly, "and then race him for the dock. Push
her out, boys!" he added gleefully, as he grasped his paddle.

The canoe shot out from the dock, and the boys stood eagerly watching
Ben as he drove his paddle deep into the water.

"Look out there, Ben!" shouted Bob. "Remember, you'll have to keep
your balance."

"Be careful, Ben! Look to your paddling!" called Bert.

"Don't tip her so much to one side!"

"Ease up, there! Don't lean so far over!"

"Sit up! Lean back! Lie down! Tip over!" called Bob, soothingly.

"Go up the river! Go down the stream! Come ashore! Turn around! Go
ahead!" shouted Bert, encouragingly.

But poor Ben was too much occupied with his own efforts to heed the
confusing calls of his companions. Twice the little canoe had almost
capsized, but somehow Ben had managed to keep it afloat, though he
had abandoned all efforts to paddle and was only striving to keep his
craft above the water.

"I say, you fellows!" he called in despair. "I can't manage this--Hi!"
he added, as the canoe gave a lurch and almost went over. "Throw me' a
rope! Come out and help me!"

    "I can't, my dear, though much I wish,
    For, oh, you've tied my hands,"

sang Bob, mockingly.

"Oh, come ashore, Ben, if you can't go ahead," called Bert,
soothingly. "You won't tip over. I'll risk it! I'll risk it!"

"You risk noth--" began Ben, desperately; but his exclamation was not
completed, for as the canoe gave a sudden lurch to one side the
unfortunate lad leaned to the other to assist it in righting itself.
He leaned too far, however, and then strove to reverse the weight. His
actions were frantic now, and it seemed as if there could be but one
result, and that must come soon.

"It's going!" shouted Ben, in despair.

"So I see," called Bob, encouragingly. "Keep it up, Ben! what you need
is practice. Practice makes perfect, you know. Keep it up! Keep it
up!"

"I'm going! I'm going! I'm go--" shouted Ben.

It was evident that he had spoken truly. For a time or two he
succeeded in righting his craft, but each effort seemed to make his
condition worse. Suddenly the canoe went over; the paddle in Ben's
hands flew out over the water, and then the lad's long legs and feet
appeared to be lifted into the air, and waved frantically for a moment
before, with a circular movement, they followed their owner and
quickly disappeared in the river.

"Going, going, gone!" called Bob, solemnly, as he gazed out over the
water at the place where his friend had disappeared.

Ben was an expert swimmer, much the best of the four, so that they had
no fears for his safety; and the ludicrous sight of those long legs,
with what Bob called "their despairing appeal to come over and help
us," disappearing in the St. Lawrence, was more than either could
endure. They burst into shrieks of laughter. They hugged each other in
their delight, and even Bob laughed until the tears rolled down his
cheeks.

[Illustration: "Suddenly the Canoe went over."--_Page 62._]

But Ben speedily appeared, and as he started out for the dock, Bert
called to him, "Your canoe's going down the river, Ben; so's your
paddle."

"The proper way, my friend, to paddle a canoe is from the upper, not
the under, side," said Bob, soothingly. "Take my advice, Ben."

Ben was for taking the canoe, however, which already was drifting away
from him; but as he started to swim toward it, Jock swept past him,
and, calling to him to go ashore, said that he would get both canoe
and paddle.

When Ben climbed in his dripping clothes up on the dock, the laughter
of the boys was renewed.

"You'd have done all right, Ben, if you'd left those feet and legs of
yours ashore. They were in the way. There are some things even the St.
Lawrence won't stand."

"You wait," said Ben, doggedly. "I'll show you yet."

And "show" them he did. As soon as the canoe was restored he insisted
upon repeating his experience. It was true that he was capsized again,
but he sturdily stuck to his task, and in an hour had, in a measure,
mastered the problem, and was able to paddle swiftly up and down the
river.

It was dark now, and the boys were soon ready for bed. A pile of logs
had been placed before their tent, and as soon as the other boys were
in their cots, Jock started the fire. The light of the flames could be
seen far out over the river, and it was long before sleep came to the
campers. The sighing of the wind in the tree-tops, the rush of the
mighty waters, the constant lapping of the little waves upon the
shore, the twinkling stars, which could be seen beyond the waving
branches, were all novel and strange. Then, too, when some of the boys
would be ready for sleep, others would not feel so inclined. They
would leave their tent and fire their guns at imaginary enemies or
wild beasts. The school cheer, and even the school songs, had to be
given again and again, but at last even these experiences became
monotonous, and the tired boys slept.

It was not long after dawn on the following morning when Jock and Ben
sat up in their beds and looked about them. Both of their companions
were gone, but the sounds that came from the river left no doubt as to
their whereabouts. Hastily dressing, both boys ran down to the shore
and there beheld their friends, clad in their bathing-suits, and
practising the art of paddling a canoe without departing from the
craft when it was in motion.

Apparently both boys had already succeeded, but even their efforts
were ignored when Ethan and Tom were discovered approaching in their
sailboat, and all knew that not only would the breakfast for which
they were eager soon be ready now, but that their first efforts in
fishing in the St. Lawrence would soon be put to the test.




CHAPTER VI.

THE FIRST DAY'S SPORT.


Ethan and his son soon had breakfast ready for the campers, and as
they had brought with them from home some dainty viands such as only
the housewives of the region knew how to prepare, these, with the food
the fishermen cooked, made a repast over which even a king might have
rejoiced, especially if he could have boasted of such an appetite as
the lads on Pine Tree Island had.

None of them was thinking, however, of kings or of kingly appetites
that morning; and when at last the boys ceased, chiefly because even
the well-spread table had been cleared, Jock turned to Ethan and said,
"Where are you going to take us to-day?"

"Fishin'."

"Yes, I know; but where are we going to fish?"

"Oh, I haven't jest made up my mind yet. Mebbe in one place, and then
again mebbe in another. Will try our luck till we strike what we
want."

Perceiving that Ethan was averse to committing himself on such
delicate matters, Jock called to his companions and they at once began
to collect their rods and the various necessities of the day, and by
the time they had all things ready, Ethan and Tom had stored away the
cooking utensils, and soon after came to the dock.

"Is it safe to leave everything here in the camp without any one to
watch it?" said Bob.

"Hey?" replied Ethan. "Safe? 'Tisn't goin' to rain to-day."

"Oh, I wasn't afraid of the weather. I didn't know but some one might
come along and, finding no one in the camp, help himself; that's all."

"Folks is honest here," said Ethan, gruffly. "I s'pose you have to
keep your doors locked down to New York, don't ye?"

"Why, yes, we usually do," said Bert.

"Well, I'm glad I don't live there, that's all I can say then. I
haven't got a lock on my house over at the Corners, and I haven't had
since I built, nigh on twenty-two years ago."

"What!" exclaimed Ben. "You don't mean to say you don't lock up
nights, do you?"

"That's just what I mean to say. I never had nothin' stole since I've
lived here. Folks is honest here, I tell ye. If anything is taken,
it'll be because some o' the city folks what come down here summers
has taken it. The city must be a dreadful place to live in. They say
even flowers won't grow there; an' if the posies don't like it, I
don't know what it must be when it comes to huming bein's and boys.
Heow ye goin' to divide up yer party?"

It was speedily arranged that Jock and Bob should go with Ethan, and
the other boys with Tom. The skiffs were at once prepared, and when
the fishing tackle had been placed on board, the boys took their seats
as the men directed.

What a delightful experience it was, they all thought. The skiffs were
models of beauty and grace, and the seats the boys occupied were cane
chairs from which the legs had been cut, and were also provided with
cushions. Bob was seated in the stern and Jock in the bow, with Ethan
between them, and in the other boat a similar arrangement had been
made.

As soon as he perceived that they were ready, Ethan grasped the oars,
and with steady strokes began to row out into the river. The water
over which they passed was clear and beautiful. Scarcely a breeze
ruffled the surface, and as the light skiff darted ahead, it almost
seemed as if it required no effort to send it forward.

"I don't know but ye might as well bait up," said Ethan, when they had
gone a few hundred yards from the camp. "I don't s'pose ye'll catch
anything here, but there's no harm in tryin'. It's about time for the
muscalonge to begin to run, an' who knows but ye might strike one?"

Ethan rested on his oars, and taking first one of the lines and then
the other, attached a live minnow to each of the hooks, and threw them
overboard.

"Neow, let out about a hundred an' twenty-five or fifty feet," he
said, "an' we'll troll till we get where we're goin' first."

Far behind on one side of the skiff stretched Jock's line, and on the
other was Bob's, and as they paid out the slender cord they could see
that their friends in the other boat, which was distant about two
hundred yards, had followed their example.

"This is what I call great sport," said Jock, contentedly.

"It is pretty good," replied Bob. "At least it isn't what you call
actual labor, except for Ethan. I think it's rather my way of fishing.
I've heard them tell about catching trout with an eight-ounce rod, and
how a fellow has to crawl through the bushes and tumble over the logs,
and then he makes his cast. He mustn't move, they say, not even if a
million million mosquitoes and black flies light on his hand; and then
if he succeeds, at last he yanks up a little speckled trout that
weighs about four ounces, and he thinks he's had a great catch. No, I
think this is the situation which is better adapted to my precious and
delicate frame," and as he spoke Bob stretched himself out lazily in
his chair and permitted his rod to rest on the boat, while he gazed
about him with an air of deep satisfaction and content.

And truly there was much to produce that feeling. The early sunlight
now flashed across the water and covered all things with its halo. In
the distance were the dark green forests, and here and there among
the islands, or on the main shore, the rising curls of smoke indicated
the location of the cottages or summer camps. The very air was a
tonic; or, as Jock declared, 'it seemed to him it was so laden with
life that he could almost bite it off.'

And all the time the two boats were moving slowly and steadily over
the water, Ethan pulling lightly at the oars and from time to time
glancing keenly at the lines, which seemed to fade away in the river.
The calls of the far-away crows or the sight of a great hawk circling
high in the heavens above them only increased the wildness of the
scene, and for a time the roar of the great city and the sight of its
crowded streets seemed only like the memory of a dream. Even the
occupation in which the boys were supposed to be engaged seemed
unreal, and Bob closed his eyes dreamily and permitted the rays of the
sun to strike him full in the face.

"I say, Ethan," said Bob, opening his eyes lazily, "don't you think it
hurts the fish you put on those hooks?"

"Hurt 'em? Naw! Fish hasn't any feelin's."

"How do you know that, Ethan?"

"They never make no complaint, do they?"

"Yes, they kick."

"No, they don't kick. They can't kick without legs, can they? They
jest wiggle."

"It's all the same. It seems pretty hard to put 'em on those hooks."

"Hard? Not a bit. It's give an' take with a fish. The big fish eat the
little ones, and the little ones eat the smaller fellows. Now it's
only gettin' what they tried to give, that's all; and they can't
complain."

Bob made no reply, and settled back into his former lazy attitude.
Ethan still rowed slowly on, casting occasional glances at the lines,
which the boys had apparently forgotten. But the fisherman knew what
was unknown by the others in the boat, and that was that they were
approaching a shoal, and it was not unlikely that something might
happen here of interest to all on board.

Suddenly Bob sat erect in his seat and made a frantic grasp at his
rod, which had almost been torn from his hands.

"Hold on, Ethan," he said quickly. "My hook's caught on the bottom."

The fisherman smiled, but made no reply as he backed water and swung
the little boat around in the current.

"Caught on the bottom, did ye?" he inquired sharply. "Well, that
doesn't look much like bottom!"

As he spoke, about a hundred feet in the rear of the boat a good-sized
fish leaped from the surface in the sight of them all, and almost
seemed to shake himself as a dog does when he has been in the water.

"Bass," said Ethan, laconically. "Now look out heow ye play him. Don't
give him any slack. Be careful. Keep yer hand on the reel."

It is doubtful whether Bob heard any of the boatman's directions, for
he was all excitement now. He stood up in the boat and gave all his
attention to the fish, which was struggling to free himself. Again and
again the tip of the rod was drawn under the water, and the "zip" of
the line as it sped from the reel was distinctly heard.

The bass was well hooked, and for a time the struggle became most
exciting. Again and again Bob brought the fish near to the boat, and
then, with a dart and a rush, away the victim would go, making the
reel sing as the line was drawn out.

"Be careful," muttered Ethan. "You'll tucker him out pretty quick, an'
then we'll have him. Give him the line, but don't let him have any
slack. That's right. Let him go," he added, as once more the fish
darted toward the deeper water.

Bob steadily held to his task, and when he felt that the run of the
bass was ended, began once more to reel him in toward the boat. The
fish was evidently tired now, and his resistance was much less strong.
Nearer and nearer the eager boy brought him, and soon, peering over
the side of the boat, could see in the clear water the movements of
the struggling fish. Ethan had grasped his landing-net, and was ready
for the last effort.

"Bring him up near the boat now," he said, "and we've got him. Look
sharp, and don't give him any slack!" he added, as the fish, perhaps
having caught sight of the boat, began once more to struggle
desperately. Darting first in one direction and then in another he
made the line cut deeply into the water, while more than once he
dragged the rod far below the surface.

"Look out, now! Don't give him any slack! Bring him up alongside!"
called Ethan, as with his landing-net in the water he endeavored to
thrust it under the struggling fish.

But, alas! in his excitement Bob either neglected the directions given
him or was unable to comply, for somehow his grasp on the reel was
removed, the line sped out, and when the excited lad began to reel in
again, the tension was suddenly relaxed, and with a quick movement of
the boat he was thrown back into the chair.

"He's gone! He's got away!" exclaimed Bob, ruefully.

"So I see," remarked Ethan, as he calmly picked up his oars and
resumed his labors.

"But he was a big fellow!" protested Bob, "and I had him right up to
the boat."

"He was a pretty good one," said Ethan, "but it's a game of 'now you
see him and now you don't.' It's a good deal of a trick to know how to
land a three-pound bass. Still, you didn't do so very bad for a
greenhorn."

Bob made no reply as he slowly reeled in his line at the boatman's
direction. Greenhorn! Well, there were some things he did not know,
although he had spent much time in the city. To his mind Ethan, with
all his good qualities, had been the greenhorn; but now the boatman
was the one to accuse him of the possession of that very quality. His
respect for Ethan went up instantly, and he looked up at him in a new
light.

"You'll soon get the hang o' it," said Ethan kindly, as he proceeded
to bait Bob's hook again. "You did first-rate for a beginner. The main
thing is to look out for yer slack. A bass is a fighter, and he'll
take advantage o' ye every time you give him a chance. I think we'll
try it again around this shoal. One strike may bring another."

"Why do the bass come to the shoals, Ethan?" inquired Jock.

"That's where the minnies [Ethan meant minnows] are, and they're the
ones the bass feed on. Now we'll try it again."

Once more Ethan began to row, and the long lines dragged on behind the
boat. Both boys were all eagerness now, and Bob's laziness had
departed. They watched and waited for the longed-for "strike," and
soon to Bob's great delight he felt the tug upon his line which
indicated that his hook had again been seized.

"Now be careful, son," said Ethan, "and mind you don't give him any
slack."

Mindful of the caution, Bob worked carefully, and after a time
succeeded in bringing the fish up to the boat, when Ethan deftly
thrust the landing-net underneath it and threw it into the boat, and
with a blow of a stout hickory club speedily put an end to the
struggle.

"I 'most always does that," he explained. "I don't s'pose a fish knows
anything about it, but I don't like to see 'em go ker-flop, ker-flop!
so I puts 'em out o' their misery. Besides, they're better eatin' when
ye treat 'em that way."

"This one is a little fellow," said Bob, regretfully, as he gazed at
the fish, which now had been thrown into the fish-box. "The other must
have been ten times as large as this one. That was a monster!"

"The big ones 'most always gets away," replied Ethan, smilingly. "An'
they grow mighty fast, too, sometimes. The farther away they git the
bigger they be."

"What do you mean?"

"Oh, nothin'; but that I've knowed a man when he was out with me to
lose a half-pound bass, an' by the time he got back to the camp or the
hotel, that 'ere bass weighed a plump five pound. It's marvellous
like, the way they grow sometimes."

"Where's the other boat?" said Jock.

"I dunno. We'll let 'em look after themselves a bit. We'll try it here
again afore we leave. It's your turn next to get one."

Eager to continue the sport, the boys once more let out their lines,
as Ethan began to row slowly over the shoal again.




CHAPTER VII.

IN GOOSE BAY.


The success which attended their efforts was not great, and after a
few more bass had been taken, Jock, to his chagrin, not having even
one strike, Ethan decided to leave that ground for another.

"I think I'll take ye over to Goose Bay," he said. "That's where I
told Tom to go, and probably they're there by this time."

"That's historic ground, isn't it, Ethan?" inquired Bob.

"Yes. The British and Yankees had a bit of a go round there in the War
of 1812. I'll show ye jest where it was when we get there."

"How did you know there was a fight there, Bob?" said Jock, quickly.

"'Most everybody knows about that, I s'pose," said Ethan, before Bob
could reply. "Everybody round these parts has heard of it."

Bob looked up at Jock and winked slowly. "Do you remember what Oliver
Wendell Holmes said about every little place he went to thinking it
was the central spot of all the world, and that the axis of the earth
came straight up through it? He went down to a little place named
Hull, once, and when he came away he said the people there were all
quoting Pope, though they didn't know it, and saying, 'all are but
parts of one stupendous Hull'! Remember that, Jock?"

"Ye needn't be makin' fun o' me," said Ethan, sharply. "I guess folks
round here is as smart as they be anywhere. You city people talk about
how green country folks are when they come to teown, but I don't
believe they're any greener than city folks be when they go into the
country."

"I didn't mean that," said Bob, quickly. "I was only wondering a
little why it was that you thought everybody ought to know about Goose
Bay, and the time the British and our men had here in the War of
1812."

"Why shouldn't they know about it, I'd like to know?" replied Ethan,
somewhat mollified. "It's hist'ry; an' ye study hist'ry, don't ye?"

"We pretend to; but Jock here doesn't know much about it, you see,"
said Bob.

"He'll larn. But I was speakin' about the greenness o' city folks in
the country. Well, they be green. My wife had a time of it with the
fresh airers only last summer."

"The 'fresh airers'? What are they?"

"Don't ye know what they be? Well, I swan, ye're greener 'n I thought.
They're the boys an' girls the folks pick up off the streets in the
city and send up into the country every summer. We had some last
year."

"Oh, yes, I know. You mean the children sent out by the fresh-air
fund."

"I s'pose I do. We call 'em 'fresh airers' up here."

"What did they do?" inquired Jock.

"Lots o' things. Two of 'em--we had five to our house--was walkin'
along the road with me the next day after they come, an' one little
fellow ran up the bank an' began to pick some buttercups what was
growin' there. The other little chap was scared like, an' he called
out, pretty sharp, 'Hi, there, Henry! Keep off the grass or the cop'll
get ye!' An' he meant it too."

"Poor little wretches," said Jock, sympathizingly.

"'Twasn't whether they was wretches or not; 'twas their greenness I
was thinkin' on. We had a lot o' bee-hives out near the back door, an'
after dinner that same day my wife looked out the window an' she see
that same little chap there with a stick in his hand. He'd jest poked
one o' the hives over, and the bees was fightin' mad. She was scared
'most out o' her seven senses, my wife was, an' she jest grabbed her
sunbunnit an' hurried out o' the house an' screamed to that young 'un
to come on. He didn't want to come, an' was layin' about him with his
stick; but my wife ran out an' grabbed him by the hand an' they
started up the hill 'lickety-whew, yer journey pursue,' an' the bees
after 'em. They finally made eout to get free from 'em, an' then the
little shaver was for goin' back an' havin' it out with 'em. 'Them
bugs bit me,' he says, says he, 'an' I'm goin' to go back and fight
'em.'"

